presentations/README.md, before:

# English

## YaTalks: DB events notification tool (in Russian)
DB events notification tool - my presentation at Yandex' Big Pytup about a small solution, which allows to send notifications, when the observed table in a DB is changed.  
  
## Peak IT, UrFU: CICD of the Data and the Code in Enterprise (in Russian)
It's a difficult task to create CICD process for relatively big amount of data for testing and staging environments: data copying, processing, cutting and masking. In the speech I show how we handle this task, the methods and the instruments we use in MegaFon (a cellular company). CICD of the Code was covered in the first lecture, which was done by a colleague of mine.   
  
## Skillbox, Fast deployment of VMs and preparing environments for hackatons and gamejams (in Russian)
The webinar describes most popular SCMs (System Configuration Management) out here with a primary focus on Ansible. Covered 'Getting Started' topic. At the masterclass we deploy VMs in a public cloud, update packages, kernels, install software, make integration with Git server (Gitlab) and finally make our own very basic CICD solution.   
  
[The recording is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gnx-Xy_PxyA)  
  
  
# Russian

## YaTalks: DB events notification tool
Доклад на большом Питапе Яндекса. Краткий обзор инструмента для отслеживания измений в таблицах и отправляющий СМСки по внешнему API.  
  
## Пик Айти, УрФУ: CICD кода и данных в Enterprise
Доклад на Пик Айти в УрФУ. Кратко рассказаны подходы для создания CICD процесса, который позволяет оперерировать большими реляционными базами данных для создания тестовых окружений (для функционального и нагрузочного тестирования), а также кратко показаны инструменты Jenkins и Ansible и задачи, которые они решают. Про CICD кода рассказывал коллега, мой доклад покрывал только CICD данных. Создание копий, обрезка, маскинг и обезличка.   
  
## Skillbox, Быстрая подготовка рабочих окружений для хакатонов и геймджемов  
Вебинар проведенный во время карантина, на котором я рассказал про наиболее популярные системы управления конфигурациями, с основным фокусом на Ansible. Было рассказано необходимо для начала использования инструмента. Проведён мастеркласс, на котором показал быстрый деплой виртуальных машин, установку и обновление ПО, обновление kernel, показал создание интеграции с Git сервером (на примере Gitlab), а также настроил маленькое CICD решение.  
  
[Запись доступна здесь](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gnx-Xy_PxyA)

Commit message:

added new article and new presentation from PiterPy

presentations/README.md, after:

# English

## YaTalks: DB events notification tool (in Russian)
DB events notification tool - my presentation at Yandex' Big Pytup about a small solution, which allows to send notifications, when the observed table in a DB is changed.  
  
## Peak IT, UrFU: CICD of the Data and the Code in Enterprise (in Russian)
It's a difficult task to create CICD process for relatively big amount of data for testing and staging environments: data copying, processing, cutting and masking. In the speech I show how we handle this task, the methods and the instruments we use in MegaFon (a cellular company). CICD of the Code was covered in the first lecture, which was done by a colleague of mine.
  
[The recording is available here (starting from 21m)](https://vk.com/video-162254678_456239074?list=fd391dbdb0dee76f10), [a reserve link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMrMoJTOG1w?t=1260)
  
## Skillbox, Fast deployment of VMs and preparing environments for hackatons and gamejams (in Russian)
The webinar describes most popular SCMs (System Configuration Management) out here with a primary focus on Ansible. Covered 'Getting Started' topic. At the masterclass we deploy VMs in a public cloud, update packages, kernels, install software, make integration with Git server (Gitlab) and finally make our own very basic CICD solution.   
  
[The recording is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gnx-Xy_PxyA), [a reserve link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trFUuME7dH4)  
  
## PiterPy: Writing a backend for game (in Russian)
A presentation from PiterPy, where I described a fresh experience of writing a backend to a single player game.   
And experience of publishing my game with this backend at New Year Eve.  
  
[The recording is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvMN_T9YECM&list=PLQTGSfnaYlCuBHkO1XOKSDayK24sN_zVG&index=22), [a reserve link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AgYwE5yweLQ)
  
  
---
# Russian

## YaTalks: DB events notification tool
Доклад на большом Питапе Яндекса. Краткий обзор инструмента для отслеживания измений в таблицах и отправляющий СМСки по внешнему API.  
  
## Пик IT, УрФУ: CICD кода и данных в Enterprise
Доклад на Пик Айти в УрФУ. Кратко рассказаны подходы для создания CICD процесса, который позволяет оперерировать большими реляционными базами данных для создания тестовых окружений (для функционального и нагрузочного тестирования), а также кратко показаны инструменты Jenkins и Ansible и задачи, которые они решают. Про CICD кода рассказывал коллега, мой доклад покрывал только CICD данных. Создание копий, обрезка, маскинг и обезличка.   

[Запись доступна здесь](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gnx-Xy_PxyA), [резервная ссылка](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trFUuME7dH4)  
  
## Skillbox, Быстрая подготовка рабочих окружений для хакатонов и геймджемов  
Вебинар проведенный во время карантина, на котором я рассказал про наиболее популярные системы управления конфигурациями, с основным фокусом на Ansible. Было рассказано необходимо для начала использования инструмента. Проведён мастеркласс, на котором показал быстрый деплой виртуальных машин, установку и обновление ПО, обновление kernel, показал создание интеграции с Git сервером (на примере Gitlab), а также настроил маленькое CICD решение.  
  
[Запись доступна здесь](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gnx-Xy_PxyA), [резервная ссылка](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trFUuME7dH4)

## PiterPy: Пишем-пишем бэкенд для однопользовательской игры: таблица рекордов, ивенты, чат, боль
A presentation from PiterPy, where I described a fresh experience of writing a backend to a single player game.   
And experience of publishing my game with this backend at New Year Eve. 
  
[The recording is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvMN_T9YECM&list=PLQTGSfnaYlCuBHkO1XOKSDayK24sN_zVG&index=22), [a reserve link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AgYwE5yweLQ)
